Really, this is the meat of the algorithm itself.
This is really the backbone and this is the KD Tree.
So that was one of the parameters at
this euclidean clustering object back and PCL was using,
and it's actually pretty important for doing our clustering efficiently.
So in this section,
you're going to be implementing your own KD Tree.
So what is a KD Tree?
Well, it's a data structure and it's represented by this binary tree.
So it is a binary tree and we are going to insert points into
this binary Tree alternating comparisons between the different dimensions.
So if we're working with 3D data,
that's going to be alternating between looking at the X,
Y and Z dimensions.
Otherwise, if we're looking at 2D data,
it's just alternating between looking at the X and Y dimensions.
So let's say we have some data,
and to make things simple,
let's work with this 2D data case.
So we have these 2D points,
and here in particular,
we can kind of see that there are three clusters that are relatively close to each other.
By the end of these exercises,
you'll be able to write your own euclidean clustering algorithm,
and identify these three clusters.
But before we can do that,
you'll be implementing a KD Tree.
So let's build a KD Tree based on this two-dimensional data.
So in our example,
we have 11 points and we have
these three groups of points that are relatively close to each other.
Well, if we have a KD Tree and we start inserting these points into the KD Tree.
These is actually what it looks like.
In our KD Tree is this data structure that is organizing data spatially.
It's able to break regions apart.
So it's splitting regions either in our example here with 2D data,
it's splitting regions into the X region,
so we can do this vertical split and have
these different X regions or we can do this horizontal line split,
and split the Y regions.
So here, we can see how it's splitting the X region with
these blue lines and how it's splitting the Y region with these red lines,
and these splits are each coming from these different points,
which are going to be different nodes in our binary Tree.